Chapter 16
RAPUNZEL

“There were once a man and a woman who bad long in vai vished for à
child. At longth ho somam hoped that God vas abont to gramt hor desire
“These people has a little window at the Back of their honse from wehih a
splendid garden conta be see, vi as ful of ho most beautiful Howrrs
and herbs, Tt vas, however, surroundod by a high wall, and no one dared
to go into it becanse t helonged to am enchantress, who had great pow
and was drcadod by all ho word. Ono day the woman ias standing by this
window and looking down into the garden, when she saw à bed which was
Plante with the most beautiful rampion (rapunsel), and it look so fresh
and grcon that she logo or it, he quite pin away, ad began to look pale
amd miserable. Then her hushand vas alarmod, and asked: “What aíls you,
dear wife?” “Ah she reli, cat cat somo of the rampion, ich is in
the gardem behind our house, shall di! The man, sho loved he, thought
“Sooner than let your vie di, bring her some of the rampion voursef, et
dt cost eat dt will! At oligo, he clamberod doven over th wal into the
garden of the enchantres, hastily clutchod a hadful of rampion, and took
dt to his wife. She at once made herself a salad of it, and ato it grodil
Je tastod so good to hor-so very good, that the noxt day she longod for it
three times as mu as belo, Tre vas to have any rest, her husband must
once more descend into the garden. Im the gloom of evening therefore, he
Jet himself doem again; but achem he had clamberod down the wall he was
terei afraid, for he ave he enchantres standing before him. “How con
vou dare," said sho with angry look, descend into my garden amd steal my
rampion like le? Vo sal sufer for” “Ab? answere he, let merey
take the place ot Justo only made up my mind todo tout of necesiy. My

 

 

 

sa CHAPTER 16. RAPUNZEL

vie sa vou rampiom from the vindo, ad felt such a login for it that
she would have died àf she had not got some to at.” Then the enchantress
allowed her anger to be satened, and said to him: E dhe case be a vou say,
oil aloe vou to tale ave ek you as much rampion as ou vil, only 1
male one condition, vou must give me the child wi sour wife will bring
nto the word; it sal De el treatod, and T wi care for e like a mother
“The mam in his terror consented to everything, and when the woman vas
brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at onee, gave he child the name
E Rapel, and took it away wi her.

Rapunael gre into the most beautiful child under the sum. When she
vas tele years old, the enchantres shut her nto à tower, ich lay in
a forest, and had neither stars nor door, but quite at the top vas à little
“vindo. When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed herclf bencath
dt and cre:

 

Mapunel, Rapunte,
Let dom your hair o me.”

Rapumael had magniicont long hair, fine as spum gold, and when she
ear the voce of the enchantres she umfstened her bri tresees, vund
them round one of he honks of the window above, and then the hair fel
(ore els dove, and the enchantrossclimbe up by t

Alter à year or two, t came to pass that the King's son rode through
the forest and passe by the tower. Then he heurd a song, which vas 50
charming that he stood til and listened, This vas Rapunzel, cho in he
slitude passe, her me in leting her swoet vojo resound The kings som
“wantod to clim up to her, and Jooked for the door of the tower, but none
“was to be found. He rode home, but the singing had so decply touched his
Deart, that every day he went out into th forest and listened to it. Once
doe ho as th standing behind à tre, he saw that a cnchamtress came
there, ad he heard how she crod:

Mapunel, Rapunzel,
Let dom your hair to me.”

 

“Then Rapunsel Jet down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress.
climbed up to her. “IF thnt is the ladder by wbich one mounts, 1 too will
try my fortune, said be, and the next day oem dt Degam to row dark, he
“went to the tower ud ri:“Rapunvel, Rapunzel
Let down one hair to me.”

nmeediately the hair fel down and the lins som climbed up.

A fist Rapunzel was terribly frihtened sohem a man, such as her eves
ad never yet bene, came to her; but the kings som began to talk to her
quit io friend, and told her that his heart had been so stirred that it had
Jet bém have no rest, anal e had been forced o se her. Then Rapunzel lost
der fer, and she he ask er E she mon tado him for her husband, amd
alho sa that he vas von and handsome, she thought: “He vil love me more
Uia old Dame Gothel does; and she said es, and la her hand ils, She
said il vil go ava aih vou, but do not know how to get down.
Bee with you a sei of silk every time that vou come, and [ will weave
a ludder with t, and when that às ready 1 will descend, and vou wil ade
me om yonr horse hey agreod hat until that time he should come to h
every evening, for the old woman came by day. The enchantress remarkod
nothing of this, until one Rapunzel said to her: “Tel me, Dame Gothe,
doe it happens tn vou are so much hoavir for me to draw tp tham the
von King some s il me dr moment "Ab! you wickod child, erid
the enchantress. “What do | hear you say! 1 thought 1 had separated you
rom al the world, amd yet on have deeived me? Ta her anger sho clutched
Rapunvers beautiful treses, wrapped them tc round her of hand, sezed
da pair of sessos with the right, amd saúp, map, they were cut of, and he
Jovely bra lay om the ground. An she was so pitiles that she took poor
Rapunzel into a desert where she had to live in grest grif and misery

Om the same day that sho cast out Rapunzel, howexer, the enchantres
fastened the bai of air, ic she hd cut of, to the book of he vinda,
amd hem the Ling som came and cri:

 

  

 

 

 

 

“apunvel, Rapunse,
Let down our hair to me.”

le let the hair dove. Th King son ascended, but instead of Bnding his
dlearest Rapungel, he found the enchantress, who gazd at him with wichod
and venomons looks. “Ala” she criod mockingls, “you would etc vour
deares, but the beautifal bird sis no longor singing in the nest: tho cat has
ot t, ad will seat out vou eyes as we. Rapunzel is Tot to von; you vel
never soe hor again.” The ling's son was besides with pain, and in hiss CHAPTER 16. RAPUNZEL

despair he leapt down from the tower. He escape wit hs if, but the thorns
no bc he fil plerond hi es, Then he wandered quite blind about the
forest, ate nothing but roots and, berries, and did maught but Tament and
ee over the los of his dearest vie. Thus he roamed about in mise for
some year, and at Iemgth came o the desert ehoce Rapunzel, with he tvins
to wiih she had given birth, a boy and a gil, ived in wretchedneas. He
heard à voice, and t seemed so familiar to him that e went towards i, and
he be appronchod, Rapunel knew im and el on hs neck and wept. Two
her tens wet his ese ad they gre clear again, and he could see vith
thom as before, He led hes to his kingdom here he was jovfully received,
and he lived for a lo time alterar, happy and contenteChapter 17
FUNDEVOGEL

There vas onee a forester avo sent into the forest to hunt, anel he entered

dt he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there, He followed

dat last came to à big tre, and at the top of this a litile

for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with the

and a bird of pres: had seen it ia her arms, had Rot dove, snatehed
dt away, and set dom the ig tre.

“The forester climbo up, brought the child done, and thought to himself
ou il tale him home vet yo, and bring him up with sour Lina” He
took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together. And the
one, bc he ba found on a tre was called Fundevoge, because a bird had
crie it avay. Fundevogel and Lina loved each ather so denry that when
they did not see each other they were sad

Now the forester had an old cook, who one evening took two pails and
Degam to fee water, and did not go once only, but mary times, ot to the
spring. Lina sa tis and sai, Listen, old Sana, we aee go Fetehing so
much water?” 1 you wil never repeat it to anvone, E wil tell you wi So
Lina sad, no, she would mover repeat t o anyone, and the the cook sai:
“Early tomomon morning, ben the foretor is out hunting, 1 wil heat the
water, amd ah tis boing in tho rt, vel throw in Pundovogo, and
o bol him ône

Early next morning the forestor got up and went out hunting, and vem
de was gone the children were stl in bod. Then Lina said to Fundevoge:
“IE vou vil never leve me, | too will never leave vou. Fundevogel said:
"Neither now, nor ever wil leave vou.” Then said Lina: "Them vil T tel
vou. Last night, old Sanna carried so many bucket of wntor into the house

 

  
 

 

 

 

s