There were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child . 
 At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire . 
 These people had a little window at the back of their house from which a splendid garden could be seen ,  which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs . 
It was ,  however ,  surrounded by a big wall ,  and no one dared to go into it because it belonged to an french ,  who had great power and was dreaded by all the world . 
 One day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden ,  when she saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful championship  ( range )  ,  and it looked so fresh and green that she longed for it ,  she quite pined away ,  and began to look pale and miserable . 
 Then her husband was alarmed ,  and asked  " What ails you ,  dear wife ? u na ,  she replied ,   " if I ca not eat some of the championship ,  which is in the garden behind our house ,  I shall die . 
u The man ,  who loved her ,  thought than let your wife die ,  bring her some of the championship yourself ,  let it cost what it willwill At twilight ,  he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress ,  hastily clutched a handful of championship ,  and took it to his wife . 
She at once made herself a salad of it ,  and ate it greedily . 
It tasted so good to her so very good ,  that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before . 
 If he was to have any rest ,  her husband must once more descend into the garden . 
 In the gloom of evening therefore ,  he let himself down again but when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid ,  for he saw the enchantress standing before him . 
 " How can you dare ,  said she with angry look ,  described into my garden and steal my championship like a thief ?  You shall suffer for its  " Ah ,  answered he ,   " let mercy take the place of justice ,  I only made up my mind to do it out of necessity . 
 My wife saw your championship from the window ,  and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat . 
 then the enchantress allowed her anger to be softened ,  and said to him arm the case be as you say ,  I will allow you to take away with you as much championship as you will ,  only 1 make one condition ,  you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world it shall be well treated ,  and 1 will care for it like a mother . 
the man in his terror consented to everything ,  and when the woman was brought to bed ,  the enchantress appeared at once ,  gave the child the name if range and took it away with her . 
 Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun . 
 When she was twelve years old ,  the enchantress shut her into a tower ,  which lay in a forest ,  and had neither stairs nor door ,  but quite at the top was a little window . 
 When the enchantress wanted to go in ,  she placed herself beneath it and river
 control ,  Rapunzel ,  Let down your hair to me . 
 Rapunzel had magnificent long hair ,  fine as spun gold ,  and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses ,  wound them round one of the hooks of the window above ,  and then the hair fell twenty ells down ,  and the enchantress described up by it . 
 After a year or two ,  it came to pass that the king's son rode through
 the forest and passed by the tower . 
 Then he heard a song ,  which was so charming that he stood still and listened . 
this was Rapunzel ,  who in her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound . 
The king's son wanted to climb up to her ,  and looked for the door of the tower ,  but none was to be found . 
He rode home ,  but the singing had so deeply touched his heart ,  that every day he went out into the forest and white to it . 
 Once when he was thus standing behind a tree ,  he saw that an enchantress came there ,  and he heard how she tried
  " Rapunzel ,  Rapunzel ,  Let down your hair to me . 
Immediately the hair fell down and the king's son climbed up . 
 At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man ,  such as her eyes
had never yet beheld ,  came to here but the king's son began to talk to her
quite like a friend ,  and told her that his heart had been so stirred that it had
 Jet him have no rest ,  and he had been forced to see her . 
Then Rapunzel lost her fear ,  and when he asked her if she would game him for her husband ,  and she saw that he was young and handsome ,  she thought  " He will love me more than old Dame tell does end she said yes ,  and laid he hand in his . 
 She said T will willingly go away with you ,  but I do not know how to get down . 
Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come ,  and I will weave a ladder with it ,  and when that is ready I will descend ,  and you will take me on your horse . 
 o They agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening ,  for the old woman came by day . 
The enchantress remarked nothing of this ,  until once Rapunzel said to here tell me ,  Dame tell ,  how it happens that you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young king's son he is with me in a moment . 
n ra !  you wicked child ,  cried time charles . 
What do I hear you say !  I thought I had separated you from all th world ,  and yet you have deceived met In her anger she clutched Rapunzel's beautiful tresses ,  wrapped them twice round her left hand ,  seized a pair of scissors with the right ,  and snip ,  snap ,  they were cut off ,  and the lovely braids lay on the ground . 
 And she was so pitiless that she took poor Rapunzel into a desert where she had to live in great grief and misery . 
